# TabulatedOCR
Tabulated OCR

Developer: Manitrarivo A. M.

This is my final year project (2015). Files in this repository are the codes that I wrote myself (except the auto-generated GUIs and Hibernate config file). I didn't include the library files, which are: Hibernate, MySQL Java Connector, OpenCV, Tess4j (Tesseract Wrapper for Java). They are publicly available.

The idea behind the project was to free companies from entering tones of data manually. That kind of job is boring and stressing. My mother works in accounting and when I was a child I helped her enter data from bills after bills after bills into an endless excel spreadsheet. The pattern was easy so I could help her: read her the name, the date and the amount on the bills.
But today we have computer, and we've built them especially to take on easy routine jobs. Knowing that datas mostly come from paper documents that have predefined format, one should be able to tell a computer what kind of document is it (bank receipt, passport, restaurant bills, ID, etc) and a program should be able to know where to look based on that, recognize texts from the scan of the document and extracts useful data. Store it in your prefered database or in a spreadsheet. In this project, I just stored it in XML format.

I had 4 months to code this so I could only do the basics of what I had in mind (during 2 months I mostly did something that I just ended up erasing because it wasn't just working, decided to use a library for the neural network instead).

There are 4 folders under the com.maheffa.tabulatedOCR project:
  - DBManager: mostly Hibernate file, used to connect and manage database. Stored in databases are user preferences, projects and documents modeles (document predefined formats).
  - GUI: everything about user interface. Some parts are auto-generated by JFromDesigner.
  - ImageProcessing: this is for image pre-processing. That includes removing stains and noise from the scan, adjusting document tilt, binarizing the whole documents (turning it into black/white, not grayscale), etc.
  - TableStructureDetection: since most documents/bills have some sort of tables in it, this contains codes about how I managed to get the structure of the table from the image of the documents (it involves using HoughLineTransform in OpenCV library)
  - TextExtraction: OCR codes for detecting text on the whole image or on some part of it.

The diploma.pdf is my paper, describing from the mathemitacl aspect, technical, to the economical aspect of this "software", all in Russian, without grammatical erros (after few Russian friends sat with me for hours to correct my Russian). 
